as well as ongoing fighting with Hamas
Israel has faced an outbreak of violence
on its northern border with Lebanon
since Sunday the iran-backed Hezbollah
group has fired both Precision missiles
and Rockets at Israeli military
positions in towns Israel responded with
a barrage of artillery fire on Southern
Lebanese towns Hezbollah said three of
its Fighters have been killed a Shiite
political party and militant group
Hezbollah have long been a sworn enemy
of Israel's but where did they come from
and what do they want and how powerful
are they
now it was in the chaos of Lebanon Civil
War in the 1980s that Hezbollah emerged
as a shadow
faction funded by Iran the group vowed
to drive Israeli forces out of
Lebanon and carried out bombings on
Western powers like the US and
France after the Civil Civil War
lebanon's militias were disbanded except
for one
Hezbollah Hezbollah is basically a
political party with a military wing it
is by far the most influential party in
Lebanon with significant support among
the public the party says it originated
to fight the Israeli occupation of
Southern Lebanon in the 1980s but has
since said its aim is to counter what it
calls Western predomination and
expansionism the party remained
committed to the destruction of Israel
Western intelligence say the group
carried out bombings on Israeli Targets
in Argentina and Britain in the early
90s killing and injuring
scores in 2006 the group sparked the
second Lebanon war after they abducted
two Israeli soldiers in a crossborder
raid and killed three others 1,00
Lebanese mostly civilians and 158
Israelis mostly soldiers were killed
at home Hezbollah only grew in
stature Hezbollah has dominated the
Lebanese political scene for the past
two decades its leader says it has a
fighting force of some 100,000 men and
tens of thousands of rockets at its
disposal the group's biggest backer is
Iran who according to the US gives it
700 million a year to fund its
operations money it used to send several
thousand and fighters to Syria in 2013
to support Bashar al-assad's
regime underlining the groups
increasingly powerful and divisive role
in the Middle
East as well as support from Iran the
group is a member of the so-called
resistance axis along with huis in Yemen
the popular mobilization in Iraq Hamas
and the Islamic Jihad in the Palestinian
territory and the Syrian regime but
Germany the US and others have
designated Hezbollah as a terrorist
organization now again Israeli forces in
the north are on edge as Hezbollah
appears poised to step up its
attacks all right hanen Hadar is a
senior fellow at the Washington
Institute where she focuses on Shia
politics throughout the Middle East it's
good to have you with us this evening I
want to just ask you about Hezbollah and
Israel we know that they have traded
rocket attacks this week Hezbollah
Fighters have been killed that said How
likely do you think it is that we're
going to see this conflict turn into a
two-front war if you will one with Gaza
and one with Lebanon Hezbollah in the
north yes that's mainly the question
that's on everybody's uh mind today is
that this so far has been a very
calculated uh engagement between
Hezbollah and Israel on both sides
actually Hezbollah wants to still keep
playing within you know like the rules
of the of the conflict that has been set
after 2006 War there haven't been really
any serious um uh break in that U the
rule of the conflict the the engagement
of hasb clashes of that hasah has been
engaged in with Israel along the border
has still never been uh beyond the you
know attacking the North Military posts
Etc but they they are trying they are
trying to say that we are part of this
war they want to reap the benefits of
this war like Iran obviously they want
to uh maintain the gains of this war
with the plausible deniability where
they can say we are not really your
target so what they want today is like
basically this is this is an Iranian
strategy of deniable uh uh plausible
deniability in this specific War where
has playing a very risky game because
this might change any moment um to make
sure that Iran Keeps The Edge that that
the the Iran it's its proxies maintain
the edge that they have uh gained in
this war so far which is freezing the
Saudi Iran deal responding to Israel
exposing
Israel's weaknesses and obviously
Shifting the Arab Street uh away from
normalization and away from Western open
us back to the Iranian Edge and Iran's
resistance narrative uh gaining the
popular support that they needed so this
this is a main this is a big win for
Iran if you want until now but it's also
a very risky game where hasah today if
they do not get involved and maintain
this calculated engagement with Israel
they will be able to uh maintain these
gains uh shift The Edge to their
advantage and at the same time Iran and
hollah will still be able to hold this
very strong pressure card which is
hezbollah's precision missiles and
weapons in Lebanon as as a strong card
without actually using it honey let me
just ask you if I understand what you're
saying then um hasah is cognizant of the
fact they have to do something they have
to be some type of
distraction um for the isra military if
not um you know their benefactor Iran is
going to look at them and ask well what
what good are you what use are you
really for our plans is is that what
you're
saying I'm I'm saying that there's a
coordination very close coordination
here between Hezbollah and Iran
Hezbollah will not be involved in this
war unless Iran asks them to this is
this is a decision that is made in
tahran this is not a decision that is
made in Beirut or hasah stronghold in
Beirut this is a very coordinated
decision about Iran's interest interests
in the region and Hezbollah will or will
not be used depending on these interests
in the region Hezbollah today internally
does they do not want to lose their
Lebanese Lebanese uh interest their
Lebanese decision uh they don't want to
expose their own uh um infrastructure in
Lebanon because it would be very cost to
costly to reconstruct that they do not
really have the budget for war or the
budget for the Reconstruction um it's
going to be very devastating for them
but at the end of the day if this
becomes the war with the capital W where
Iran realizes that this is the war
that's going to shift everything to its
own Advantage hasah cannot say no to
Iran on these big decisions H it's it's
they can decide within the Lebanese
domestic politics but not on these
Regional war and I want to say that if
they go for it it's not only going to be
two war two fronts it's going to be the
the Palestinian front the Lebanese front
the Golan front which already has has
been heated recently and I wouldn't be
surprised if also the huis in Yemen uh
were asked to launch missiles into
Israel as well so this will be a
multi-front war what about the the
Lebanese people I mean they are already
dealing with suffering one of the
biggest economic most severe economic
downturns that the the world has seen in
the last 200 years is there any any any
type of broad support in Lebanon for has
people you know attracting the the wrath
of
Israel no I think I think the Lebanese
most of the Lebanese that say because
there's always some Lebanese who are
going to support hasah and Iran and
Hamas no matter what but I would say the
majority of the Lebanese can make the
distinction here between there is a
support of or you know I would say
sympathy to the Palestinian peoples that
are falling vict victims of of this war
right which is the Hamas Israel war uh
there's a lot of Sympathy for the
Palestinian people in Gaza there is very
little sympathy for Hamas but there is
some uh support for Hamas by certain
groups within the uh Palestinian camps
and and the Hezbollah Community but not
all of them but I would say there is no
appetite for war from anyone everybody
wants to support the Palestinians or
even Hamas at one point from a distance
but they do not want to be part of this
war because Lebanon has been through so
many Wars and we have always realized
that at the end of the day it's the
Lebanese and the Palestinians who pay
the price for war the only H H where
only the Iranians and its proxies in the
region win okay everybody in Lebanon
understand this now this is there's zero
appetite for war no one wants it and
hasah knows it hanen Hadar from the
Washington Institute we appreciate your
time and your analysis tonight thank
you thank you for having me